documentation/book/assembly-cluster-operator.adoc, before:

// This assembly is included in the following assemblies:
//
// getting-started.adoc

// Save the context of the assembly that is including this one.
// This is necessary for including assemblies in assemblies.
// See also the complementary step on the last line of this file.
:parent-context: {context}

[id='cluster-operator-{context}']
= Cluster Operator

{ProductName} uses the Cluster Operator to deploy and manage Kafka (including Zookeeper) and Kafka Connect clusters.
The Cluster Operator is deployed inside of the
ifdef::Kubernetes[Kubernetes or]
OpenShift cluster.
To deploy a Kafka cluster, a `Kafka` resource with the cluster configuration has to be created within the
ifdef::Kubernetes[Kubernetes or]
OpenShift cluster.
Based on what is declared inside of the `Kafka` resource, the Cluster Operator deploys a corresponding Kafka cluster.
The format of the `Kafka` resource is described in xref:kafka_assembly_details[Format of the `Kafka` resource].

NOTE: {ProductName} contains example YAML files, which make deploying a Cluster Operator easier.

ifdef::Kubernetes[]
include::proc-deploying-cluster-operator-kubernetes.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
endif::Kubernetes[]

include::proc-deploying-cluster-operator-openshift.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

ifdef::Helm[]
:context: str
include::proc-deploying-cluster-operator-helm-chart.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
endif::Helm[]

include::assembly-kafka-logging.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

// Restore the context to what it was before this assembly.
:context: {parent-context}

Commit message:

Docs: Modularize the cluster-operator.adoc (#742)
* Modularizing Cluster Operator

* Rewrite the cluster-operator section into modules

* Add KAfka Connect TLS and Authentication support

* Add mode modules

* Avoid using doesn't

* Remove some more TODOs

* Integrate logging

* Entity Operator

* Annihilate last parts of clster-operator.adoc

* Review Comments

* Fix typ

* Review comments II

* Implement review comments

* Review comments XXIIV

* Review comments XXIV

* PLug User oeprator in

* EntityOperator fixes

* Some fixes and review comments

* Review comments XXV

* Review Comments XXVI

documentation/book/assembly-cluster-operator.adoc, after:

// This assembly is included in the following assemblies:
//
// getting-started.adoc

// Save the context of the assembly that is including this one.
// This is necessary for including assemblies in assemblies.
// See also the complementary step on the last line of this file.
[id='cluster-operator-{context}']
= Cluster Operator

{ProductName} uses the Cluster Operator to deploy and manage Kafka (including Zookeeper) and Kafka Connect clusters.
The Cluster Operator is deployed inside of the
ifdef::Kubernetes[Kubernetes or]
OpenShift cluster.
To deploy a Kafka cluster, a `Kafka` resource with the cluster configuration has to be created within the
ifdef::Kubernetes[Kubernetes or]
OpenShift cluster.
Based on what is declared inside of the `Kafka` resource, the Cluster Operator deploys a corresponding Kafka cluster.
For more information about the different configuration options supported by the `Kafka` resource, see xref:assembly-deployment-configuration-kafka-str[]

NOTE: {ProductName} contains example YAML files, which make deploying a Cluster Operator easier.

include::con-what-the-cluster-operator-does.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

ifdef::Kubernetes[]
include::proc-deploying-cluster-operator-kubernetes.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
endif::Kubernetes[]

include::proc-deploying-cluster-operator-openshift.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

ifdef::Helm[]
include::proc-deploying-cluster-operator-helm-chart.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
endif::Helm[]
